Well,
welcome to our library studio of the Yahowah
Vlog.
I'm your host, Craig Winn,
and this handsome fellow trying to steal
the show, that's Wookie.
He may make a contribution as we move
through the
the narrative today.
We're returning to the last word picture.
It is the final Mashal.
It is number thirty-one of Proverbs.
It was written to convey, and Rich,
we have a cutting problem with Asher here.
It was
written to describe an exceedingly
important meeting you see uh Dowd had
engaged in some horrific behavior uh Dowd
being david he as the chosen one as
the son of god as the messiah and
king had
No, acted very badly.
He coveted another man's wife and actually
took her, impregnated her,
tried to bring the man who was a
soldier, a very good man,
back from battle so that he could lay
with his wife and therefore create the
impression that Dowd was not the father,
give an excuse for the pregnancy,
if you will.
And
When that didn't work because the man
would not sleep with his wife while his
fellow soldiers were out in the fields in
harm's way,
Dowd schemed to kill him and did.
It was a horrible episode in his life
and Dowd really had a tough time dealing
with what that meant for himself,
his people,
for Yahowah and for the world.
And so when Nathan came to him and
said, you know,
this time you really blew it, pal,
and shared a story about a covetous man
who had virtually everything and yet stole
something of great value from a man who
had very little, Dowd said, well,
you know, that man deserves to die.
And Nathan said,
then Yahowah wants you to know you are
that man.
So it was really a horrid episode.
And Dowd and Yahowah were already not on
speaking terms.
Dowd had made some mistakes in judgment
that caused God to pull back from his
beloved son for a while.
And this made it much worse.
And this was a fourteen years before the
end of Dowd's first life.
And from this point on, everything,
fell apart.
His family, his leadership as a father,
he became a horrible father, apparently.
He became a horrible husband.
He became a horrible king.
He became a bad prophet.
I mean, he just, everything fell apart.
during this time of separation.
And God could have just ended the story
there and just racked up to the point
that, well, kings are bad.
When you concentrate power with people,
they abuse it.
And Dowd did.
He became interested in the pleasures of
the world.
He was drinking too much, sexing too much,
and not thinking nearly enough.
So God could have just said, all right,
so there you go.
Even when I anoint them,
even when I give them my spirit,
even when I try to guide them.
Men are men, and
They do horrible things.
But in this case,
God couldn't allow that to happen.
And God was actually stymied because he
couldn't meet directly with his son in
this condition,
because it would be out of character for
God to have done so.
The only solution God had was to do
as he had in the past.
There was both a man and a woman.
that God had routinely interjected into
his story when things were about to get
out of hand,
that were deployed by the Almighty to keep
his plan on track.
The most important of these in that role
is a remarkable woman.
She is called at various places the ‘Amah,
the most productive of mothers.
She is referred to as Ashar,
the one woman who is blessed and
beneficial.
She is named Leah and
Her life is rather extraordinary as God
uses her in these remarkable situations.
And so Dowd reported in the last Mashal,
this final word picture,
that he had been visited by this woman
who was treating him as her adopted son.
He refers to her as his mother.
He would refer to her as Yahowah's ‘Amah
in many of his Psalms thereafter.
And she essentially read him the riot act.
The man who loved women only for the
pleasures they could provide and never got
beyond a skin deep with women,
therefore never fully appreciating what
they could contribute,
was met by a woman who outwitted him,
whose intellect and whose character
greatly surpassed
his own and this was quite cathartic for
uh for doug and she had a lot
to say to him and we have read
uh studied the first i think it's fifteen
or sixteen statements that comprise the
thirty first proverb and are going to go
on now where it becomes even more uh
specific
as to who this woman is and what
she was trying to resolve.
But up to this point,
we have her initially trying to garner
Dowd's attention by asking him if he was
aware of who he was.
You see,
the reason God couldn't allow this to
happen this way and for them to stay
outside of communication
is that Dowd was the only one who
was prepared and who was capable of
fulfilling Pesach, Matsah, and Bikuwrym.
And without the first three Mow'ed Miqra'ey
fulfilled as God intended,
there was no salvation for humankind.
The entire experiment was for naught.
There would be no fulfillment of even the
last four if the first three were not
honored as they had been proclaimed.
And Dowd, as the son of God,
was the one person qualified to do this.
And so this is what we're up against.
And that is when his adoptive mother came
to him and said, first of all,
you need to know who you are.
And the reason for that is that there
is no one else like you.
There's no one else that can fulfill this
role.
And the entire human experience fails if
you
you don't come to grips with who you
are.
The next thing she said is that you
can't continue to squander this unique
responsibility of leadership for another
woman.
You have plenty of women.
God will give you as many women as
you want.
But the way that you went about taking
this one essentially squanders all that is
special about you.
Then she accused him of drinking and said
that, you know,
it's not for a leader of your capacity
to be drunk on wine.
Let those who are already lost,
let them be inebriated because it'll just
keep them from acting out on everything
that is wrong in their lives.
But as for you,
you need to sober up, son.
And from that point,
she talks a lot about,
he actually is reporting all of this,
but the beautiful apparel that she will
make for him and for the women in
his life going forward,
and the fact that she gave him such
sound advice.
But in this visit,
She was speaking to the whole man,
not just the brain.
And quite frankly,
to reach Dowd in the state that he
was in, she would have to say, listen,
I can curate women for you that will
please you while also giving you the one
thing you've never had.
so you know yes there's there's no problem
making certain that you are pleased as a
man but you need to also be involved
with a woman
whom you can confide with,
whom you can trust,
because that is the greatest and most
desirable form of a relationship.
So in this particular statement,
this next one,
as we press forward through the King's
redemption,
the double encontres are certainly
becoming impossible to deny.
And while cloaked in the apparatus of
making stylish garments as a seamstress,
There is obviously more going on here than
perfecting fabric.
Wouldn't that be true, Ms.
Leah?
I think it is, yes.
I think it's fairly obvious that that
would be the case.
Now that Leah has joined us,
I'm going to move the microphone over to
the other side.
It says,
she reaches out her hands to the spindle
and skillfully to the staff to please.
and the palms of her hands grasp and
hold a round staff and stick.
All right,
so that's Mashal word picture Proverbs,
uh, thirty-one, nineteen.
My guess is that you don't need me
to draw you a picture to understand what
she was saying.
But if you need me to explain,
the additional notes would likely be lost
on you anyway.
But again, this is PG.
This is a very... Oh,
the work of a spindle, actually,
to spin flax,
it's a very difficult process.
It is.
The Egyptians perfected it,
and Yisrael was a slave in Egypt for
a very long time.
I think they honed their weaving skills in
Egypt.
But it is a very delicate process.
Yes, I know it is delicate.
This should be noted in my wife's honor,
as she does want to keep this straight.
If I were to combine the prowess of
every woman I've ever known,
Even collectively,
they would hold a candle to my brilliant
wife,
who is quite exceptional in this regard.
It is what she senses in me that
allows her to conduct herself in a manner
that would be similar to conducting an
orchestra.
You can actually see her playing her
symphony.
So she is, quite literally,
in a manner of a metaphor,
getting Dowd's attention and saying,
you know,
I've been talking to you about recognizing
who you are,
not forfeiting your leadership,
sobering up,
appreciating a woman that you can confide
in and that is good for you because
of her intellect.
What a loving relationship looks like
beyond the skin, beyond the parts,
beyond the lips, buttocks and breasts.
Women are not parts.
Yeah, I don't think it's beyond.
I think it's inclusive.
Yes.
Going beyond that.
She is saying that you know about the
parts.
The parts are wonderful.
Just don't get stuck on the parts.
And she said, yes,
there's nothing wrong with pleasure.
But you need to know that pleasure can
come from someone whom you have an
intellectual connection with,
someone of character.
And so you don't need to forego one
for the other.
No,
the only prerequisite in this case or any
other in the future is the love of
Yahowah's name.
You know,
I would say that while our relationship
for the past.
Eighteen years has focused on an
intellectual relationship.
presentation of Towrah ideas.
Yeah.
Very early this morning,
you came into my office and say, oh,
you've got to read this.
This is really astonishing what is,
this was Zechariah eleven,
I think was today's.
It's not just eleven, it's nine.
We read it together in Hebrew this morning
and considered the implications and it is
indeed enlightening and it's going to be
important for us to deal with it at
some point.
So most of our conversations are that way.
But our relationship is far more holistic
than that.
And I think that what Dowd's adoptive
mother is saying,
that if you can elevate your game to
the point that you focus on a woman
who can contribute
everything that a man desires and needs to
be successful,
you're going to be more successful.
And you're going to enjoy even the sensual
aspects of the relationship more.
if you can trust and you're comfortable in
the presence of a woman that you have
more in common with than than just a
pleasure absolutely you know I think most
men and women have been in a place
one time or another in their lives where
they went out and and came back home
with a pretty pretty or somebody that they
thought was handsome.
And they engaged in coitus as they would
say on the Big Bang Theory.
And the next morning you wake up and
you say, oh my goodness,
what did I do?
Who is this person in my bed?
I don't even know them.
And you almost want to chew off your
arm to say,
how did I get myself into this?
And how do I get myself out of
this?
Because I don't even know this person.
Now,
maybe some of you have never experienced
that sort of thing.
And I don't really know personally,
of course.
I'm just hypothetical, of course.
Hypothetically, of course.
Rich,
you wouldn't know anything about that,
would you?
I'm working on your mic drop right now.
Okay, thank you.
So the fact is that...
When a relationship is one-dimensional,
it is not worth the overall investment,
and it has very little chance of being
meaningful.
Or rewarding.
Right.
So what Leah is presenting here is one
aspect of a multidimensional relationship
after having already gone through the
merits of finding someone whose character
and whose aptitude are stimulating and
trustworthy.
Well said.
So love is indeed a many-splendored thing,
one that is...
is beaconing the response to whom the hand
is extended.
And our role is to model genuine love
and commitment within the covenant before
the mortal remnant is gathered into the
garden.
So
they're going to be sexual in the
millennial Shabbat.
They're gonna conceive children and
they're gonna do so in a way that
is enjoyable.
God has nothing against sexual pleasure,
designed it to be that way.
And so they're going to be doing that.
And what Leah is encouraging of Dowd is
let's model a mature,
loving relationship where every aspect of
the relationship is of a high caliber and
of genuine mutual respect.
If you look at the succession of those
marriages,
many of them were damsel in distress
situations.
Finding a woman of quality
That is his peer,
that is his thinking peer,
his intellectual, his musical peer.
You know,
that would be beneficial for him.
Yes.
He's going to be a better songwriter and
a better singer.
Absolutely.
Maybe a better dancer, too.
Yeah,
the fullness of what it is to love
and to be loved in return.
Yes.
So it says,
she spreads out her hands to the
responsive who are receptive.
And she reaches out and extends her hands
to the willing and enthusiastic.
Proverbs thirty one twenty.
Still very similar that you can read this
as that this woman who has been presented
as a seamstress who is now
working the spindle to make these fabrics
and to weave these garments.
And fine linens.
You must pay attention.
That she will adorn Dowd and the women
in his life.
And that requires a lot of personal
attention if you're going to tailor a
garment specifically to someone.
So all of this is couched in language
that would
be potentially understood as this is the
seamstress for evermore.
And she will be adorning the king and
the king's wife in the future,
particularly for their upcoming nuptials.
Now it's true that all but one in
a million reject Yahowah and His outreach
to our fellow man.
They know nothing of the Towrah,
Beryth Mowedym, or of Dowd.
Nonetheless,
our job is to extend the invitation,
but not compel their reply.
When I first met Leah, then Lisa,
eight years ago,
she was a bundle of nerves with anxiety
written all over her face.
She had lived a full but fairly rough
life at times,
replete with way too many abusive and...
abusive men, psychotic women as well.
She had learned that people can be
treacherous, even cruel.
But over time,
each supportive gesture and affirming word
became a healing salve.
and the open wounds healed.
And while she still shies away from the
limelight and attention and prefers the
quiet places where she can study and share
Towrah,
it's obvious that she wasn't directed to
the final mashal before she was prepared
to handle the implications.
And Leah, of course,
is now championing an earlier mission
version of the Shabuwah harvest than the
later one.
So now that she has seen what Yahowah
has in store,
that anonymity is no longer in the cards,
she is championing the
May, I've always changed the earlier.
It was,
it was even before the harvest of Shabuwah
rather than the one a little over a
year from now on the eleventh of June,
twenty twenty seven.
So at least we're far enough along in
the process where she knows she is not
going to have to endure being in the
spotlight for a prolonged period of time,
which is
more comfortable for her yeah and there is
there is this perception and this is the
one that i have fought since Yahowah
removed my anonymity um fifteen years ago
the perception is that someone will claim
a special status with god for their own
um self-aggrandizement and that that it's
uh perceived as the person
stepping beyond their rank and trying to
pull a claim upon themselves.
And I can tell you that anyone who
would claim to be a Messianic figure or
especially anointed by God for some
purpose and
well, that they're all insecure,
they're craving attention,
they're a money-grubbing charlatan of some
sort.
Because God's approach is such that if he
is going to work with you or through
you in this regard,
he will make it absolutely clear, known.
For example,
once our eyes were opened to this,
we now see the...
presentation of the ‘Amah and Ashar
everywhere and how the barren woman will
conceive the
children of the covenant.
And so it's overwhelming how many mentions
there are of this,
just as I had to deal with going
from anonymity as Yada into what will be
well over a thousand prophecies pursuant
to the role that I have been asked
to play.
But if you're sincere in your relationship
with God,
You don't view any of those as an
accolade to tout.
You view each of them as an additional
layer of responsibility and also the
realization that with each pronouncement,
you become a bigger target.
And that no one who has ever spoken
for Yahowah has been well received.
They're all attacked.
It's a very difficult position.
And when you are asked to do this,
you are put in a position where you
either accept it and become the subject of
attack and people trying to tear you down
constantly because they're uncomfortable
with that and
just love to tear down anyone who god
has chosen or you reject what he is
requesting of you and you fail the creator
of the universe that's a pretty terrible
position to be in so just don't i'd
rather face the jackals than disappoint
yeah
Yeah, that's my view.
I'd rather face the jackals and know that
this job does the same thing to me
that it did to Moshe,
where Moshe just said, you know, God,
I can't deal with this anymore.
You might as well just kill me.
It's an impossible job.
I haven't gotten to that point and
hopefully won't.
But Dowd did the same thing.
He burnt out.
It's a really,
really tough position to be in.
If you...
are aware of Yahowah and you know the
people that he has chosen in this regard
just do the best you can to support
them try to insulate them from attack the
best you can because it it is a
it is a tough uh position but fortunately
for leia she is not going to have
um
years of this,
she will have a much lesser period.
And by the time that we return,
you know,
things are going to be quite different.
Quite different.
Yeah.
God can, I think,
incorporate our work in a different way.
You know, the more I study Yahowah,
the more I'm convinced that Yahowah was a
bit of an introvert.
Possibly.
Yeah.
And I know that the more I live
in the limelight to do this job,
the more I'm prone to return to being
an introvert.
And Leia, of course,
is exceedingly introverted.
So those of us who have lived on
both sides,
knowing what it is like to be a
public figure after enjoying the freedom
of freedom,
anonymity and privacy,
realize that if it were not for Yahowah's
insistence on full disclosure and complete
accountability,
the credibility that comes from the
conviction of an individual that's willing
to take the blows,
willing to stand up against the crowd,
because when you speak for God,
you are always standing up against the
ninety nine point nine nine nine nine
percent of those who are political and
religious.
so the last thing we would want to
do is to draw attention to ourselves but
god wants to draw attention to them
because he wants his people to listen to
their message his message
And of course,
it's not our father's choice for us to
be anonymous,
just as God doesn't want to be anonymous.
He wants the world to see us as
role models and not role models and being
prissy and good.
That's not what he's interested in.
He's looking for us being role models and
doing the four things he wanted of Adam
that he...
Finally,
would enjoy with Dowd that I think he
is enjoying with us,
which is you need to be observant.
Observe the Towrah and be thoughtful with
regard to what you're seeing in the Towrah.
Second is you need to be responsive so
that you engage in the family business,
make a contribution to what's important.
And then fourth, show that
you have staying power,
that you have character,
that you're willing to acknowledge when
you make a mistake and learn from it,
grow as a result of it.
If you trip and fall,
demonstrate to God that you can be trusted
by getting up and get going.
Correcting your mistakes.
These are the four things that Yahowah once
modeled.
It's the four things he once expressed
during the return to Eden.
So this is what our father wants because
it's proof that we can meet his
expectations and we can earn his trust.
The journey from one among billions to the
spotlight always begins in the same place
with constant and disciplined observation
and curiosity.
You begin by studying the Towrah and
prophets,
closely examining and carefully
considering everything that this world has
to offer, but particularly Towrah.
It's our response then that becomes
beneficial as we share what we have
discovered and learned along the way,
not only for ourselves,
but for our God and for future covenant
members.
So these steps are marvelous, indeed rare,
because they are not enough to engender
Yahowah's trust.
God wants us, needs us.
to stumble occasionally, to be mistaken,
so that we can learn from our errors,
get back up and grow stronger and wiser,
more confident as a result.
This is how we develop confidence and
conviction.
It is in the fire of failure that
our character is forged as our metal is
strengthened.
When we are drawn out and quenched in
the vat of his restoring oil,
we become strong.
It is why God caused the fall in
Eden.
He knew that out of Eden,
we'd be given the chance to trip and
fall and learn from our mistakes.
Get a backbone.
Show some grit.
Show that we're interesting, that we're...
Resilient.
Reliable.
Reliable, worth trusting.
And so that is why we're being invited
back into the garden and why we are
sharing what we have learned along the
way,
proving that we've learned our lesson.
Well, Leah has.
She said...
She is no longer intimidated,
nor is she afraid of this distinct honor
and sign of respect.
This is Dowd as the very son of
God saying this of Leah, the Amah,
the Ashar.
She is no longer intimidated.
She is not afraid of this distinct honor
and sign of respect.
She's earned it.
She studied her Towrah, knows her Towrah,
and has developed the character to
withstand the abuse.
In fact,
the very fact that you have been so
abused by an ex and by a BFF
and overcome them,
you forge the character that is needed to
do this job.
I don't think I could have done it
if it wasn't for all of the harassment
I have received over the years.
With each stripe,
you just become more resilient.
You learn that there is nothing somebody
can say about you.
It's going to make any difference.
First of all,
I would have to care what they say.
So she has not bothered or distressed over
not being highly valued and appreciated,
profoundly respected and admired.
Call imperfect, third person,
feminine singular.
This is all feminine singular.
For the sake of her family.
In other words,
she is willing to do this for the
sake of her family and home.
Laborethe, for her household.
And this is one of those really wonderful
metaphors that follows.
as a snowflake,
with water becoming uniquely beautiful and
distinct,
even from being perceived as icy and cold
through an occasional indiscretion,
a rash response, or unintentional mistake.
Men shilleg,
from being as white and pure as snow.
Unique as a snowflake.
Symbolic of the one cleaning up that which
others have soiled,
making it especially beautiful with a
covering of snow.
From shawl, unintentionally being wrong,
making a mistake, being an imposter,
being part of an imprudent or rash
response, or some indiscretion.
Now, it could be a misspelling of shalah,
being at ease and secure in the most
favorable situation, shalah, taken away,
shalah,
making requests or asking questions,
or even shalab,
being joined together and properly
positioned within the frame.
Although...
I think it was Leah that started us
off in the right direction with this,
because when we were trying to understand
the metaphor of snow,
your first instinct was, well, isn't it?
Isn't a snowflake making water beautiful?
Mothers and women are common.
Water is common.
But snowflakes are always unique,
uncommon.
So that what I added was every snowflake
is unique.
And so to be with God,
we must be unique.
And it is this relationship that makes us
beautiful.
And so rather than being ordinary,
you can be unique and beautiful,
just as is the case with snow.
And though you be filthy and dirty,
look how pristine,
a new fallen blanket of snow makes even
the most unattractive environment very
true so marvelous uh metaphor god's very
good at them this is because her entire
household and family are clothed and
crimson when fully grown and mature
So he goes from the whiteness, she goes,
from the whiteness of snow,
the uniqueness of each snowflake,
to the realization that a snowflake makes
water beautiful,
to the fact that her entire household is
closed and crimson when fully grown and
mature,
and vivid red when their lives are
complete.
This is Proverbs thirty-one, twenty-one.
So every reference to Leah as a mother
of Yahuwd, when she was,
the original Leah was the mother of Yahuwd,
the Jews, to Yahowah's Amah,
and even the blessings and benefits of
Ashar.
They're all signs of respect,
a distinct honor bestowed on a woman
devoted to serving her family on behalf of
her God.
She has earned and deserves our
admiration,
though recognizes it because he is the one
issuing this particular decree.
So our king, God's beloved son,
perceives Leah as his mother.
He's grateful to Yahowah for having sent
her to him,
something that he makes abundantly clear.
And for example,
in the hundred and sixteenth, Ms.
Moore, he says,
she is the one who unshackled me from
a certain incarceration.
And I'm most grateful that you have sent
your reasoned and intelligent ‘Amah to me.
By restoring his relationship with his
father, with Dowd, with Yahowah,
he can now redeem the entire covenant
family.
And in so doing,
the mother of one becomes the mother of
all.
And that is a point driven home in
the...
was it the fifty-fourth chapter,
I believe, of Yashayah,
where there is this ten statements all
about one woman and of her being childless
and then becoming the mother of the
covenant family.
And
having so many children that we have to
enlarge the tabernacle.
We have to make copious new garments for
them.
So much has to be done because she
is so enormously productive and adding to
the covenant family.
Married to the same fellow,
which is that part's encouraging.
So you weren't able to find a better
husband along the way.
So it's- No, it's you, baby.
Yeah, it's me.
Mm-hmm.
So our King, God's beloved son,
has absolutely bought in that Leah is his
adoptive mother,
and he's exceedingly appreciative for
Yahowah having sent her because she is the
one who reestablishes his relationship.
And when our king declared that his em,
mother, was ready to be Yara,
acknowledged and appreciated for her
contributions to the Beryth family,
he went on to speak of Sheleg,
of Snowflakes.
stating that the entire Beryth family
would be adorned in scarlet when grown and
mature.
While this might sound like a conflicting
metaphor,
he was actually publishing an essay on the
nature of the Beryth covenant by going
from snowflakes to crimson when mature.
Now, should you have missed it?
And we'll join the club.
I didn't see it until Leah published a
post that brought me halfway there.
She pictured a snowflake with the caption,
water made beautiful.
To which I added, unique and distinct too.
Every snowflake is individual.
She, like me,
was initially struggling to understand the
symbolism of snow in this context,
particularly when followed by clothed in
scarlet.
At the moment of intervention,
Dowd was a hot mess,
stained by a plethora of mistakes.
He needed to come clean and reclaim his
unique position with God,
a remedy conveyed by snow.
Every snowflake is exceptional,
featuring its own one of a kind
composition.
And collectively,
when snowflakes fall from the heavens and
blanket the earth, everything they touch,
even the dirtiest and most soiled
landscapes,
become pristine and white.
Beautiful.
Then when the sun shines,
the snow sparkles,
reflecting all facets of light like a sea
of diamonds.
With his adoptive mother now serving as
the Amah of the covenant family,
Dowd realized that Leah was birthing
snowflakes,
the soul so unique and special,
they are fewer than one in a million,
set apart as they are each unto Yahowah.
Even when purified in white,
all become beautiful in Leah's elegant
attire.
such that they can still be fragile after
their birth.
If someone stomps on them or grabs them
too firmly or permanently tries to yank
them away,
they can melt and lose everything that had
once made them special.
So they have to be protected at least
for a while until they are ready to
mature and to be part of something greater
than themselves.
When this happens and they do grow,
Leah will adorn them in crimson,
the crimson revealing their royal status.
But also, both Dowd, her son, and Baal,
her husband,
are known for being adorned in red.
Yashayah later will tell us that the man
from Edom is properly attired and he is
festooned in red.
not only for having coming out of the
wine vat,
but because he will be sacrificed,
as was Dowd on a Mowedym.
So Dowd,
after conveying the stains of his
ineptitude,
making him bright and white again,
he was prepared to be bathed in scarlet
red, finally,
depicting his service as the Passover
lamb.
It's a rite of passage portrayed as a
sojourner in time.
More than this, as Yahowah's Amah,
productive mother and seamstress,
Leah is offering what I once attributed to
the Ruwach spirit,
a garment of luminosity that covers our
shame and makes us appear pure as the
driven snow.
And with the reference to crimson,
It is offered in collaboration with her
sons and her husband's fulfillment of the
Mowedym.
Boy, a mother of many sorrows.
This is how we grow and mature in
the covenant family,
from the unique fragility and purity of a
snowflake to an adult adorned by our king
and his mother.
Well, to quote the great Dr. Seuss,
Oh,
the things we can think when only we
try.
And mother, father, husband,
and son are nowhere near concluding this
lesson.
There are more things to think.
She makes coverings and fabrics for her of
fine linen.
in addition to woven wool, yarn,
and cloth for her garments.
Proverbs thirty-one, twenty-two.
We're back to this garment of luminosity.
We're back to adorning the king to purify
his appearance before Yahowah,
but also as the one who would fulfill
Pesach,
And then once again in the royal line,
but with the fine textiles of linen,
which means she will attire him for
fulfilling Yowm Kipurym,
the day of reconciliations as the high
priest in the linen apparel.
And of course,
he will be wearing garments designed by
his mother, Leah, for his wedding.
which will take place on Yowm Kipurym.
She might even weave the chuppah of the
tent for the honeymoon celebration come
Sukah.
So this is going back to reaffirm that
the conclusion that I had made, what now,
eighteen years ago,
that drew us together that I had rude
because of a corruption of it by a
bunch of meddlesome and perverted women
was true all along.
There really is a garment of luminosity.
It is the apparel of our mother.
And it is the garment that is going
to be worn by all who
not only celebrate membership within the
covenant family,
but also by all who will enter the
millennial Shabbat and that our King will
be adorned in such garments as well as
his bride, Yisrael.
So there really is a maternal aspect to
all of this.
And there really is a garment of
luminosity and it is crafted
of the finest coverings and fabrics,
particularly of fine linen and woven wool
yarn.
Again, linen and wool,
primarily because in this context,
she is serving her son, Dowd.
He will wear wool when he fulfills
Passover as the lamb.
He will wear linen when he fulfills Yom
Kipurym.
as the returning king and high priest.
He will do both.
And it is likely that her husband will
be adorned in linen.
I don't think so much in wool.
I don't know what the hides are to
depict the bullish metaphor.
But again,
the bullish metaphor that Yahowah uses
really is to be symbolic of the man's
disposition and character.
Don't stand in his way.
There are three men depicted as animals,
not because they're animals,
but because there's a characteristic of
each of those animals that is conveyed
through their personality that he wants
people to know.
A Dowd as the ram,
the leader of the flock,
but also as one who is as vulnerable
as a lamb.
when enduring Passover.
And he wants Dowd known as this,
that there probably is no other animal
that would garner people's emotional
response to being harmed.
And that's the very inference of Zechariah
twelve, when Yahowah returns with Dowd,
the one that we pierced and that we
weep for him as an only begotten child.
Yes, but he's also the Lion of Yahuwdah.
Yes, but he's not depicted as that.
It's Yahuwdah that is depicted as the lion.
And Dowd is depicted as the ram and
the lamb.
Now I don't have any issue with Dowd
also being depicted, because he is Mr.
Yahuwd, as a roaring lion.
And he will certainly be our king as
a roaring lion, the king of the forest.
But he is presented as sympathetic.
A lamb is a sympathetic figure.
And we need to have compassion for what
he did and appreciation for what he did
and be sympathetic of how difficult the
job is that he's been asked to do.
A lamb is a flock animal,
and you want to be part of that
flock.
It's also a quite intelligent flock
animal.
Yes, of course.
Yeah, they are.
But they're...
probably the most congenial of all animals
in terms of wanting it to not only
be with their person and to be led
and cared for and protected by a person
but also being together among the
community so it's a it's a marvelous way
of presenting Dowd and of uh of
ElYah, he is presented as the goat,
as the woolly goat,
because he's a bit raw.
A little less approachable.
And he's, you know,
he'll say whatever it comes to mind.
And he was like a goat, more independent.
And so it it shows his independence.
It shows his kind of woolly nature as
a as a man and the fact that
he is a nonconformist.
Now, as it relates to the last one,
the bull, we know about bulls.
Bulls have attitude.
They're tough.
You do not cross a bull unless you
want to be gored.
Do not stand in their way.
Do not expect them to back down.
Do not threaten them.
No.
Bulls are very protective of the women
around them, but of their herd.
And territory.
uh they're very territorial um so god
wanted somebody with a bullish personality
and uh it's it's not to create an
enduring figure in the bowl it was to
demonstrate that somebody could stick it
out that could endure to the end to
continue to be bullish and strong right to
the last moment and you know bulls were
particularly good um
around other animals because they always
stamped out the intruders,
particularly snakes and that sort of
thing.
And they're not afraid of anything and
they will never back down, ever.
Moshe was an amazing man, a great leader,
but every time the people revolted against
him,
he ran and did a face plant before
the tent of the restoring witness.
That's not my style,
but that's part of being a bull.
You want to take a run at me,
I'm going to come right back at you.
Much harder than you're going to come at
me.
You'll regret it.
I mean,
particularly at the end when it's ElYah and
I and he's entertaining people with the
gift of gab and I'm just going to
run them over.
I'm going to be as I have always
been,
uncompromising in this regard and never
conceding an inch when it comes to that
which is important to Yahowah.
So speaking of lessons,
I had thought it was among my best
mistakes since it was thoughtful and
brought Leah to me long ago,
this idea of the garment of luminosity and
of a mother's role in conceiving and
dressing the covenant family.
But even as I tried to soften my
conclusions over time,
because there was this mother goddess cult
that took what I had said and corrupted
it to the point that God was a
hermaphrodite,
there was always something reassuring
about a spiritual garment of light that I
found comforting.
And the difference was that
that when I originally conceived the idea,
I needed some way for God to resolve
our guilt on Matsah.
And so I thought when he asked us
to approach the fiery light on Matsah,
the Ishah, which was feminine,
that he was encouraging us to be enveloped
in this garment of light,
something that was mentioned elsewhere.
And so that was the means of perfecting
us because our guilt was obliterated by
the light.
but come to find out our guilt is
obliterated by the darkness.
It is Dowd carrying our guilt into the
black hole of Sheowl so that it is
gone and unretrievable and unseen and
therefore unknown that perfects us as part
of the Mow'ed Miqra'ey.
So this garment of light is just something
that keeps us looking beautiful and
attractive before God.
It's a nice accoutrement to the story.
But it's now a voluntary addition to the
story.
So what I found comforting in all of
this is that like Dowd,
we benefit from being cleaned up every now
and again and seeing exposed in Yahowah's
presence in an attractive way.
However,
I realized that it was no longer needed
after becoming the first to recognize that
Dowd fulfilled the spring Miqra'ey in his
second of three lives in thirty-three CE.
Once you know this,
you know that he removed our guilt.
along with his own, of course, on Matsah,
taking it into Sheowl,
never to be seen again,
which is far better than covering it over
with light, with the darkness obscuring,
with the light obscuring the darkness.
But before realizing this,
I had suggested, as I had just shared,
that by approaching the feminine fire
during Matsah, itself a feminine title,
that we were being symbolically and
spiritually adorned in that light rather
than transformed by the fire,
something we spent a lot of time speaking
about since that time,
that we are literally as physical beings,
we are transformed by this fire such that
our soul is enveloped in light and energy,
making us so much greater than we would
be otherwise and releasing us.
to eternity and being able to explore the
universe with Yahowah.
That's the very transition that Yahowah is
trying to postpone until such time as we
demonstrate that he can trust us,
which is the whole purpose of this
meeting.
And that idea replaces our physical bodies
with light and energy.
Here during the millennial Shabbat,
you're adorning physical bodies with this
beautiful garment.
And yet now, after all this time,
the woman who was brought to me because
of my fascination with the feminine nature
and redemptive apparel of Yahowah is being
credited by our king of actually making
it.
And while as bright and white as snow
and as visible and pronounced as scarlet
to the eye,
the wardrobe she is making for herself and
for her husband,
as well as for her children,
and the king's wife is crafted not only
of fine linen, but also of wool.
This, as it should be,
since Dowd redeemed the covenant family as
the Passover lamb,
and he will reconcile Yisrael on Kipurym,
dressed in the fine linen of the high
priest when anointing the Kipurym,
which is the mercy seat of the Ark
of the Covenant.
Now, beyond this,
Leah and I suspect that there will be
two weddings on Kipurym.
A Dowd to his bride,
the chosen of Yisrael,
and lay it to me and she and
her curated bride for uh Dowd will all
be dressed appropriately in fine linen now
i think you want to make the bride's
garments of starlight but maybe maybe
that'll be tough to make on your loom
but we'll see how that works out
Maybe silk on linen.
Who knows?
Yeah.
So Leah is making us all presentable
before Yahowah.
We're going to be comfortable exposed in
his presence because we're going to look
stunning.
And she is doing so not only because
we must feel comfortable exposed to God
and we must come to embrace our royal
status with God,
but she is also dressing us for success.
Last time Yahowah appeared before the
children of Yisrael,
they were so uncomfortable,
they told our Heavenly Father to shut up
and go away.
But on Kipurym,
the opposite must occur for God to open
Eden's gates on Sukah and allow the
Israelites in.
back in.
He's going to appear before that mortal
remnant on Kipurym,
and there's not going to be a Sukah
entrant five days later that tells God to
shut up and go away.
So I'm hoping that our new duds keep
us better aligned with Yahowah's intent.
So one of the many reasons that I
recognize that this em, a mother,
who is depicted elsewhere as Yahowah's
‘Amah, the Ashar, is Leah, my wife,
is that Dowd unequivocally affirms that I
am her husband.
Yep.
I am a lucky man.
I don't think luck had anything to do
with it.
I tried to squirm out of it,
but he deadpan named me.
Yep.
Yeah, he does.
Ben, me as well, but here it is.
Her husband, Vale, her lord and master,
is known and respected as Yada.
Yada.
Is revealed, acknowledged,
and understood as Yada, one who knows.
It was in the Niphal participle.
Masculine, singular, absolute.
With Yada serving as an actionable and
descriptive title by which he is
recognized.
There it is, kids.
every time that I will.
Once an actionable title,
it is written in the infinitive or the
participle.
In the participle,
it means that this is something that
becomes known and declared at a particular
moment in time.
Where in the infinitive,
this is something that is disclosed over a
long period of time.
In this particular case,
the world is coming to know at this
particular time,
and we'll find it absolutely overwhelming
come Yom Kipurym.
Yes, they will.
That her husband, Baal,
her lord and master,
is known and respected as Yada.
Within the inter-sanctum of the thoughtful
assembly.
Within, he himself dwells, sits,
and remains established with the
authorized elders and prominent leaders of
the land and material realm.
Mashal, word picture.
Proverb, thirty-one, twenty-three.
Well, there's no running for that, love.
Your husband is known and respected as
Yara.
It also says that you have a somewhat
submissive marriage.
You don't have any extra wives hiding
around here, do you?
No,
I left the only other one quite about
a year before I met you for the
first time.
Okay.
Nope, you would be it.
That's it?
Just me?
Yep.
And, you know, the...
The term Baal is one that, oh boy,
I struggled with because Baal is
identified with the prophets of Baal when
ElYah goes against the religious
establishment of Yisrael.
Now what's also interesting,
he went against the prophets of Baal and?
Asherah.
And what does Dowd call you in this,
Mizmowr
Mishar.
Same basis, same word.
And so what Dowd is saying here is
that while misused, Baal,
lording over people,
is something that Satan craved,
and therefore the prophets of Satan,
the lord and master of the world,
Craves that title.
What's the first thing he corrupted?
Yeah,
he corrupted the title that Yahowah had
intended for good because a strong husband
with a wife who is a bit submissive
in that relationship,
supportive in that relationship,
is what he considers to be the ideal
marriage that
creates the best possible resort.
And what he is saying in this,
and by the same thing is true with
Asherah,
the reason Satan coveted the Asherah title
is it means blessed, benefit, beneficial,
the one who shows the way.
to the benefits of the relationship,
who knows the way to get the most
joy out of life.
And so it was something that Satan
solicited.
And you don't have ElYah actually attacking
the title Baal or Ashar.
No.
But of the religious pundits.
The ones who spoke for them.
Who claimed to speak for them.
So that's what was deadly,
and it was Satan who does what Satan
does.
He corrupted those titles,
but both of them appear here,
and they appear here as very positive
things.
Now,
it's always difficult to speak of a
marriage where the husband is considered
Baal.
That means he is the one...
to whom his wife submits as a marriage
partner.
And he is in the more authoritarian
position in that relationship.
Oh, honey, when you walk into a room,
everyone knows.
You just carry this weight with you.
You have a weighty presence.
It is...
And a booming voice.
It carries authority.
When we're working for Yahowah,
he wants us to project Chazaq, strength,
firmness, grit, toughness, resolve.
When he speaks of his son,
Dowd,
he speaks of him at his very best
moments as Gibowr,
courageous and confident.
And so Chazaq and Gibowr are what God's
looking for in men.
He does not want a man to
to be meek and humble.
He has no use for men who are
meek and humble.
And strong women don't either.
Strong women want stronger men.
And the only kind of woman whom you
can confide in, which was your advice,
and respect for their intelligence,
for being bright and beautiful,
are women who
know their strengths,
know what they are contributing.
And for someone who has that much to
offer, being willing to, not just willing,
wanting to engage in a relationship with a
man who is going to be stronger still
is not only a sign of respect,
it's more important, it's a sign of trust.
And it's also...
puts the woman in a position where she
can relax and know I can contribute
everything to this relationship without
ever being concerned for my own safety or
life or my own prestige or honor,
that a man who is fulfilling the role
of a husband as a Baal
is going to be bullish towards his wife.
He is going to absolutely protect her and
create the environment where she can be
all she wants to be.
And it fits right back into what God
said when he was creating Shawa for Adam,
first woman with an assama for a man
with an assama this is going to work
best if you guys work together and she
is supportive of what you're trying to
achieve there are several women that god
used and spoke through in a mighty way
Ruwth
Deborah, Chana,
Sarah are all examples of that.
But all of them had a very strong
man in their lives.
And the one that God asked you to
go inquire about, her man was so strong,
his name was Strong.
Exactly.
He's named as Strong.
Yeah, it was Bo'az.
It means with strength.
And Doug speaks about this ‘Amah as being
strong, strong, Oz, Oz, right?
So would you say that Ruwth was a
strong woman?
Absolutely.
She said, here I am.
I am announcing who I am.
First thing she said when Bo'az asked her
who she was before they even knew each
other, she says, I am your ‘Amah.
I am your productive mother, baby.
Yeah.
And I'm going to deliver the kinsman
redeemer, the ga'al, to you.
And I know you're Bo'az.
You're with strength.
You're going to be one of the two
columns on the Tagan Temple.
So my cryptic Facebook post,
I know who is Bo'az.
Yeah.
There it is.
Now you do too.
But I think that if I may.
Mm-hmm.
a strong woman, intelligent woman,
a woman that is highly intelligent and on
her game.
She won't, women are strong,
but she won't lend her strength to that
which is an immoral,
wrong
or mean, cruel.
And a lot of men take advantage of
women in this way.
Now, in your business career,
you had to manifest strength.
And it finally wore you out because
there's so many people taking jabs at you
and a woman constantly trying to protect
herself and her turf.
It's exceedingly draining on a woman.
It is.
A man has a little more stamina in
this regard.
And I know we all have the same
value to Yahowah,
but we have different attributes.
And a man has a bit more stamina
in this regard than does a woman when
constantly attacked.
So it wore thin.
In fact,
you finally gave up fashion just
because... I sold the company.
It was, yeah,
it was just too much being attacked all
the time.
Having somebody as a protector would have
been- Very nice.
Yeah, a marvelous thing.
And then when,
after being a runaway bride,
I don't know if it was five or
six times-
But it was a lot.
Can you confirm it was five or six?
It was six.
Six times.
Six.
Okay.
After being a runaway bride for six times,
you married poorly.
I did.
Yeah.
Very poorly.
And your ex was... On paper,
it all looked good.
Yeah.
Your ex was submissive.
Yes.
And so you had to play the...
I had to be the strong one.
You had to be the strong one because
he was insecure and submissive.
Yes.
And was uncomfortable, wasn't it?
Very.
It's a difficult relationship for a strong
woman to be in a position where she
has to be stronger than the man that
she's with.
It wears on you.
Yeah, it wears on you.
It's one of the things when we first
got together and we began to talk about
the various roles that we can play and
how we contribute to one another,
you immediately says, you know,
I want to do that.
Gosh, I really want to do that.
That fits.
I just want to be a girl.
Oh, I just want to be a girl.
I want to stop being the man.
Oh, God.
Why don't you play the man and I'll
play the girl?
That life is good.
Come on, great.
Yeah.
There's a lot to this.
I know it's difficult in today's world to
talk openly about,
but we're not afraid of being judged.
We're judged for a lot of other things,
so why not this?
But that's what Baal infers.
Her husband, Baal, serving as her lord,
as her marriage partner,
who is in an authoritarian,
strong position, is known and respected.
As Yada.
He is revealed and acknowledged,
understood as Yara.
Within the inner sanctum of the thoughtful
assembly, Baha Sha'ar, inside the doorway,
inside the gates and the portal of the
enclosed community of the rational group
of related people from Sha'ar.
Within the community of those who think
and reason.
God invented the language so easily.
makes it work on all possible ways, right?
Within, he himself dwells, sits,
and remains established.
So this whole story has been about Dowd's
adoptive mother, the em,
who we now know is,
from Dowd's own confession, is the ‘Amah,
who permeates the Toran prophets as the
productive mother, and who is...
She's really extolled in Yashayah Yahuwah,
and the contribution she makes to the
covenant family.
And yet we have a moment where Dowd
is acknowledging that she does not work
alone.
That is what he's saying here,
is that this mother is married.
Now that's big for Dowd to say because
he covets everybody.
And, you know,
a woman that comes to him and,
you know, his little brain is, well,
not the little brain.
How can I make her mine?
It's the little brain that don't have the
problem with.
And, you know, and here he's saying,
I respect her for being married.
I know her.
I now know her husband,
her husband is Yada and you don't mess
with Yada.
He said, damn bull.
And so he is explaining here.
Yeah, I get it.
She's, she is married.
Her husband is Yada and Yada is a
damn bull.
So, uh,
Okay,
and Yada is now positioned forevermore
within the inter-sanctum of the thoughtful
assembly.
You know, Dowd's king of that assembly,
going to be now,
wouldn't have been had this meeting not
taken place.
But it says he himself dwells, sits,
and remains established,
not just for a while,
forever established with the authorized
elders and prominent leaders.
What did you think?
You're his herald.
Where did you think you were going to
sit?
Well, I mean,
I was actually looking for a retirement,
but I wanted to enjoy a long Shabbat.
But, you know, we're going to, you know,
it's like Moshe before me and Dowd.
It's taxing.
And you go to bed at the end
of every day saying that, you know,
I'm committed to seeing this through,
but I really would like a vacation.
And you count the days to vacation because
while you love what you do,
and today translating and commenting was
really marvelous and rewarding.
And my time with my wife over these
last few days as we've come to this
realization has been wonderful and
rewarding.
You still say... It's a lot.
It's a lot.
It's a lot, God.
It's a lot of brain computation.
And so we do, if we fantasize now,
we're fantasizing over getting away just
the two of us.
Yes.
saying we'd like a moment you know put
a little do not disturb the beautiful
house in sun valley yeah beautiful do not
disturb sign on the door and we may
have a number of houses by that time
so y'all don't know where we are don't
come knocking right away
and we're no we're not really kidding but
anyway i wish we were nowhere i don't
wish we were kidding it's the reality of
the whole of this whole thing but so
here Dowd is um saying okay this was
the most marvelous intellectually
stimulating visit he's ever had uh and
it's by a woman but she did not
operate alone
And he is not only acknowledging this
woman is married to Yara and that Yara
is amongst the most established and
authorized of all of the elders and
leaders in his community that he is
obviously going to need to have a positive
relationship with for a long time.
But Leah was not the only person to
meet with him.
I am convinced and may prove, if not,
I will just conclude based upon the
inspiration I've been given in this
regard, that, well,
Leah was the one who set him straight
and got his attention.
I think I was the one who figured
out exactly what he needed to do in
terms of Pesach, Matsah and Bikuwrym.
And I would not be surprised if following
Leah's meeting, I sat him down and said,
we're going to go through the Towrah
together, you and I.
And I'm going to point out,
which is what I'm doing right now in
this book that I'm writing.
I'm going to point out every time you
and I are mentioned and how our role
was established in the fourth day of
creation.
and reestablished in the garden.
And then reestablished when Moshe
faltered,
getting the Israelites into the land.
And how it has been reinforced in Numbers
of the various roles that we play in
the end.
And then,
so I think that that was my role.
Like your role was to get him to
grow a conscience and character.
and begin thinking with the big head and
to view women quite differently and more
completely and respect women for their
intellect,
which is all necessary if you're going to
be head of the family, right?
And mine was to convince him of his
calling.
Do the right thing, yeah.
And say,
this is what you're going to do.
And then after that,
he began to write about these things and
the role that he was going to play
and cherished that opportunity.
So this does say that Yara is going
to be
playing a prominent role heretofore.
And I get two things.
One is I get Leah as my eternal
bride.
That's really cool.
So my gift from God goes on forever.
No one could have a better bride than
I have.
I have the world's... I mean,
I know everybody that loves their wife or
their girlfriend thinks they have the best
in the world,
but the fact of the matter is I
do.
And...
yeah as a gift from yah it should
be that way um god's not chency in
this uh regard so intellectually and uh
and um and all other ways i have
the best wife in the world and she
gets to be my wife forever more now
there is responsibility that goes with
that and
I hope I'm up to the task in
this regard,
but God seems to think that we're going
to be married forever and that we are
going to be positioned in a very
influential place in Dowd's life and in
Yisrael's life and in the covenant family
for a very long time.
So this is now the second of three
times.
in the final word picture that Dowd refers
to his M's, his mother's husband as Baal.
And here he is known and introduced and
affirmed as Yada using the participle.
This is made evidence by that participle,
which as a verbal noun serves as the
actionable title, Yada, one who knows.
That's rather specific.
And that was my nom de plume for
the initial decade of our collaboration.
And it is incorporated into the title of
every book that we have written along the
way.
It is always Yada Yada.
So this affirms that the place where I
will be, Yada,
acknowledged as such is Baha Sha'ar,
within the inter-sanctum of the thoughtful
assembly.
That means that everybody who is part of
the covenant going forward will have thunk
themselves into that position.
You come to know God up here.
That's the point Leah has been making to
Dowd from the beginning.
Think your way through.
Mm-hmm.
This is inside the door that Dowd opened
on Pesach for the covenant family to life.
It is also apparent based upon the king's
prophetic pronouncement that known as both
Baal and Yada, that I will Yashab,
dwell and remain among the Zaqen,
the elders of the material realm.
So while this is Leah's story,
she did not happen upon it alone.
The Amah has a Baal named Yada,
and he has an interesting role to play
in Yahowah's story too.
Indeed.
As I have shared,
ours is unarranged marriage.
It's true.
There is no way around that.
I know.
Yeah.
I was so against anything remotely of that
kind, but yeah, it is.
It's an arranged marriage.
Yahowah sent her to me, uh,
by email letter, uh,
asking the same question.
So who do you think you are?
Yep.
And as you recall,
but it's still in my mind.
Why are you doing what you're doing?
Yes.
Yep.
She was searching for Yahowah,
and God told her at the time that
she would find what she was seeking if
she went to ask Ruwth.
Yep.
Go ask Ruwth.
Yeah.
She did.
Now, we're an hour and a half.
Go ask.
Eighteen-year quest.
Go ask Ruwth.
I'm looking forward because it is such an
interesting episode with Ruwth.
to beginning our next program with this.
So we're going to take a break.
We'll do another round of the last word
picture, the final Mashal tomorrow.
And we'll resume with what Leah would have
read when Yahowah told her to go ask
Ruwth and how that takes us right back
to where we are and everything we have
just read.
So thank you so much,
master of the cables.
I appreciate your contribution when asked
as you punted the...
the fall earlier,
I think I would have done the same
thing.
We look forward to being with you both.
We'll do another episode tomorrow,
perhaps in the Rainbow Studio,
perhaps the Ocean Studio,
followed by one here again in our library
studio in the pursuit of our understanding
of the last word picture.
Good day.